now we're going to show you the process
of folding and unfolding the bike the
most fundamental part of the product
we're going to start with a folded bike
and we will unfold it and show you how
to unfold it to a rider ball state and
then we'll take it back down to the
folded package and then finally we'll
talk through a few issues the folding
and why it's done in the way it is to
avoid any problems so we'll start off
with the folded bike so the first stage
is to unclip the folded pedal then raise
the saddle up this point the handlebar
support needs to be raised up so you
swing that round and then you need to
tighten the catch on down that on the
hinge and then you lift the bike and
rotate the front wheel around that
allows the front wheel hook to clear the
frame there and tighten up the main
frame hinge at this point you can then
just swing the back wheel out and it's
been held in place by the rear frame
clip now this is a feature that's been
on the bikes for a couple years now if
you have an older Brompton you can
retrofit the rear frame clip so if
you've got a bike without that you can
add it on but all current production
bikes come with that fitted so at this
point we now have a bike that's ready to
ride and now we can look at the process
of folding the bike again so we start
off by releasing the rear frame clip and
parking the back wheel and this state we
call this the parked position and then
from there we can undo the main frame
hinge and swing the way around again
lifting that to allow the hook to go
over the chainstay
now we're undoing the handlebar support
hinge and that swings into its clip and
then lower the saddle and pull the
folding pedal up and put that into
position and there's the bike ready for
storage or what-have-you it's fully
folded state at this point we'll talk
about a couple of issues with the
folding the reason that it's done in the
order that is is for basically
ease-of-use the rear frame is held in
place by the seat post there
for the seatpost is the be first and the
last thing to be folded or unfolded so
if we now take the seat post up and
extend it you'll see that it's the bike
is no longer held together so if you
pick the bike up it will simply fall
apart so that's why the seat post is the
first thing to be unfolded and the last
thing to be folded up so once we put
that back down the whole thing is held
together and if we take the bike back to
an unfolded state you can see why the
handlebar catch needs to be folded
secondly the handlebar support needs to
be folded after the main frame hinge if
at this point you try and fold the
handlebar support down you'll see that
the cables will become very taut and it
will put undue stress on the cables you
see there that you can't fold it down
properly you have to twist it and do
that and so that's not an ideal way of
doing it whereas if we do it the correct
way by folding the main frame first you
see that it shortens the distance from
the wheel to the rear of the bike and
allows the cables more room to maneuver
and it can be drops successfully there
so that's the reason we do that so it's
extremely important to follow the
correct procedure for folding and
unfolding the bike in order to avoid any
problems and to be able to do it quickly
and easily